How heartwarming it's been to see millions take their stand for true worship.
Thousands more are joining us every week.
Jehovah is speeding up the in-gathering work, and this makes us very happy.
But who will work to provide the Bible's, Bible literature, and the audio and video publications
that sustain us spiritually and help us to accomplish our kingdom preaching and teaching work?
Bethel is a unique place. It's where mature Christians render sacred service to Jehovah
in close association with Christ's brothers. They minister to the needs of our worldwide
brotherhood and support the preaching work. The Bethel family is a group of dedicated,
baptized servants of Jehovah who live and work together closely. So they experience in a special
way what Psalm 133 1 says. Look how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in
unity. We're very pleased to see that many have expanded their service to Jehovah by making
themselves available for the special privilege of Bethel's service. Have you considered this
as a goal? Making yourself available for Bethel's service is like knocking on a door that leads to
many other privileges of service. Of course, to serve at Bethel requires a self-sacrificing spirit,
and a willingness to serve wherever there is a need in harmony with the attitude displayed by the
prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 6.8. Then I heard the voice of Jehovah saying,
whom shall I send? And who will go for us? And I said, here I am, send me.
When Isaiah learned about an opportunity to do more in Jehovah's service, he responded eagerly,
even though he did not know exactly what he was going to be assigned to do. It was enough
for him to know that Jehovah was extending an invitation to serve in a special way. And Isaiah
wanted to volunteer. The same spirit is shown by Bethel family members worldwide.
What especially motivates so many to serve at Bethel? Love for Jehovah moves us to put Kingdom
ahead of self-interest, as stated in the Proclaimers book page 295. This is not work in which they gain
personal prominence or material possessions. Their desire is to honor Jehovah, and they are
satisfied with the provisions made for them in the way of food, lodging, and a modest allowance
for personal expenses. Are there any rewards that come from serving in this unique way? Those who
have offered themselves willingly for Bethel service have truly been blessed. The love and
unity we feel here is incomparable. It's not like in a company out in the world, because here you
can work with your friends every day. Like-minded people have the same goals and support each other.
That is what you can feel here. Maybe you're assigned a task that you've never performed before,
but there are many experienced brothers and sisters who can help professionally as well as
personally. Whether it's the consideration of the daily text or watched our study with the
Bethel family, listening to the practical, valuable comments of our brothers and sisters
is really refreshing. You really feel that they love Jehovah and their comments help you to feel
the same. Here in Bethel you have the best employer that there is. Jehovah, no other employer is
as grateful and considerate as he is. So out of love for Jehovah, you're simply happy to give
him your best. Whenever I think about what has been done at Bethel, publications are being produced
and shipped. Videos for our conventions are being made, and there is translation being done
into so many different languages. I keep getting goosebumps. No matter what I can do here, knowing that
by doing it and supporting Christ's brothers makes me feel very, very good.
So how does a young person qualify for Bethel service? My parents raised me to have a spiritual
focus. So in the school holidays or as growing up, our life revolved around the ministry, doing
spiritual activities and it really helped us keep focus spiritually as a family and helped me
stay focused on the goals that we wanted to achieve. I really enjoy reading, and one day my dad
just said to me, why don't you read the Bible? I know it sounds obvious, but at that point I'd never
read it from Genesis to Revelation. So when I finish reading the Bible, it really changed my thinking
and it really proved the truth to myself, and this helped me to keep a spiritual focus,
and it really was the first step in reaching out and achieving the spiritual goals that I wanted
to achieve. In the congregation I was able to help out with doing the magazines and the sound
and the platform, and doing these privileges really helped me to build a good work ethic and
given ways that I could give more to Jehovah. So the elders used to work with me a lot on the
ministry, so when I'd get to feeling like, I can't do this or this is too much, it's too overwhelming
or I'd never be able to reach this goal. And elders showed me a scripture, the Bible where
Jehovah was encouraging Joshua to be courageous, and that really impacted me that I was able to
be courageous too, to reach my goal of Bethel. So when I visited Bethel, I saw that there were
no more people, and they had so many good qualities that I wanted to imitate, very hospitable,
very warm, very inviting, that helped me to want to reach my goal so I could be like that.
To serve at Bethel, there are qualifications that need to be met. You should have a deep love for
Jehovah and the organization, which is demonstrated by living in harmony with Bible standards.
You must have a fine reputation as a spiritual person. You should have respect for Jehovah's moral
standards, avoiding uncleanness and sexual immorality. You should have a clean conscience before
Jehovah and be at peace with yourself and with Jehovah's organization. Your dressing grooming
should be exemplary, befitting a Christian minister, even during leisure time,
styles that are fattish or extreme, or that identify us with undesirable elements of the world
are not acceptable at Bethel. The applicant would not read, listen to, or view any type of material
that is inappropriate for a Christian. Such unhost some material certainly would include pornography,
debasing music, or any kind of entertainment that features sexual immorality,
spiritism, or violence. Bethel applicants should be from 18 to 35 years of age.
Occasionally, there is an opening for someone over 35 years of age who may have specialized
skills that are needed at Bethel, such as those with certain technical or medical experience,
translation skills, or building trades such as plumbing, electrical, heavy equipment mechanic,
or carpentry. Those with such capabilities and training are welcome to apply.
In view of the unique demands of a full-time assignment at Bethel,
you should be mentally and emotionally sound, physically strong, and able to work long hours.
You should be able to read, write, and speak the primary language of the branch territory.
This will enable you to communicate well with others serving at Bethel to receive needed training
and to work safely in the Bethel environment. Bethel applicants agree to serve for a minimum of one
year. During which time you will receive training for continued Bethel service.
With regard to secular skills, we do not encourage individuals to obtain university education or
training with the thought that this will improve their chances of being called into Bethel.
The best way to prepare for Bethel service is to first serve in the full-time pioneer ministry.
The greatest need is for single brothers. However, all who meet the qualifications,
including sisters, are encouraged to apply for temporary volunteer service.
Serving as a temporary volunteer at Bethel may open the way to other opportunities
to expand your service to Jehovah. If you are interested in applying for Bethel service,
you should make your desire known to your congregation service committee,
who will provide you access to the online applications by means of my.jw.org.
However, which application should you complete? Since there are two types of applications
available, first give careful and prayerful consideration to your circumstances.
Thereafter, decide whether you will complete the application for volunteer program A19,
which is available for those interested in serving on a temporary basis,
for as brief as one week or as long as several consecutive months.
Or you may decide to complete the application to become a member of the worldwide order
of special full-time servants of Jehovah's Witnesses A8. This application is for those
interested in serving on a long-term basis for one full year or longer.
If the branch committee determines that there is a need for your services,
they will decide where you can best be used, whether it Bethel or perhaps on the
Theocratic Construction Assignment. Submitting your application may open a door of
opportunity to serve Jehovah and his organization in a variety of ways.
Of course, not all of us who have such a self-sacrificing spirit have the circumstances in life
to serve at Bethel, but we can encourage others who do. Parents follow the example of God-fearing
parents such as Hannah and Alcena, who willingly made their son available for expanded
theocratic privileges. Continue to place the goal of Bethel's service before your young ones
and stimulate their interest in the full-time ministry by your example and your positive
expressions. If possible, bring them on a tour of World Headquarters in New York, USA,
or make arrangements to bring them on a tour of the Bethel in the branch territory in which you live.
Such visits can help young ones to witness firsthand the work that's being done at Bethel
to promote Kingdom interest. Elders, help young ones in your congregations who have the
potential to expand their service to Jehovah to meet the qualifications. Jehovah continues to
look for those willing to respond to his invitation to expand their service to him. As in Isaiah's
day, he asks, whom shall I send and who will go for us? Will you answer as did the prophet,
here I am, send me. We encourage you to progress to spiritual maturity and serve Jehovah whole
soul. In due time, you may qualify to serve at Bethel or in another form of exciting theocratic
service that permits you to use the health and strength that Jehovah's granted you in an expanded
way all to his praise. Please be assured that we love you for the willing spirit you show as
you continue to reach out in Jehovah's service.